# Automation-Project

This repository stands as an exhibit of a self-started project to make data entry on my job more efficient through the use of web-browser automation. I employed Playwright testrunner libraries to automate two workflows: one that I finished (the script was run to successfully make approximately 350 record entries online in a tenth of of the time it would take manually), and one that I did not. The LiSC workflow was written for a scenario in which node.js was installed on the host PC and Playwright/test plugins installed in VS Code; the WorknetBridgeProject workflow was written to be executed in an accompanying docker container built off of a Node.JS image.

As a nonprofit professional in the workforce development field, I am responsible for tracking, recording, and reporting services provided to worker training program enrollees in several databases between my org and funder orgs, and they cannot be integrated with one another. The LiSC workflow was developed for one specific grant funder that mandates case management data entry into a customized Salesforce Lightning database via web-browser. These services are delivered in two main formats: group class-oriented workshops, and one-on-one coaching and/or 'direct service' sessions. I am essentially tasked with duplicating all of the group-level services to the individual level in addition to recording other trainee-specific services and several other pieces of information. The result is a lot of wasted time that could be spent on actual service delivery, hence my motivation to learn about automation and build these tools.

The "Sessions" script in LiSC executes the creation of workshop service records for a designated training cohort, and the "Services" script handles that of the records for each individual trainee enrolled in the same cohort. Details of each session are extracted from an excel template via the methods defined in "Excel.js" and used for both workshop & direct service records.

WorknetBridge was developed for a different funder database but wasn't finished due to responsibilities related to that funder being removed from my role. I included the code I wrote here once again just for exhibitions' sake (and more specifically because I wrote all of that code manually prior to realizing that Playwright's codegen functionality existed.....basically I deserve to have my hard work seen)

I understand that this method of data entry is crude compared to direct API integration, but the grant funder databases in question had no accessible API and at least one of them were quite honestly poorly configured, so I did what I had to do. I am also aware that these scripts are probably rudimentary and would need to be optimized to rollout for use by the full team, which would at least entail data type restriction in the template and/or translation in the program, security measures, and an additional block or two to allow users to specify the training cohort name. I did have a deadline for the data entry, so this code represents the best I could put together on a time crunch. My intent is to improve and expand this code in the future to make the data entry as efficient and comprehensive as possible. For now, I consider it a win that I managed to design my first executable program.

Disclaimer: AI was NOT relied on to write the code contained in these scripts, although they were referred to for explanation of Playwright functionality/syntax and for debugging guidance. Playwright codegen was used to initially generate the LiSC workflow by capturing clicks and navigations, while I manually reviewed and edited each element locator and wrote everything else myself.

So far, my coding capability has been built purely by self-guided study via community/platform documentation, youtube, and online training modules such as what platforms like Codecademy and Coursera offer; the exception is a singular 'Intro to Programming' course taken during my undergraduate studies.


